Stock Market News, Aug. 29, 2025: Appeals Court Strikes Down Trump's Global Tariffs; AI Worries Hit Nasdaq
Last Updated: Aug 29, 2025 at 8:36 PM EDT
20 hours ago
Jobs Report, Broadcom Earnings, Xi-Modi Meeting: What to Watch Next Week

Anvee Bhutani hedcut
By
Anvee Bhutani
,
Reporting Intern
The nonfarm payrolls report for August is due next week.
The nonfarm payrolls report for August is due next week. (Alexandra Citrin-Safadi/WSJ)
Earnings season is winding down, but results from Salesforce and Broadcom will be among the week's highlights. Investors are also expecting to see key economic data including the July trade deficit, Q2 productivity, and August employment figures.
Leaders from China, India, and Russia are also set to convene for a two-day summit this weekend amid economic pressure from U.S. tariffs.
Here’s what to watch for next week:
Sunday, Aug. 31
Geopolitics: Chinese leader Xi Jinping, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin are among the leaders expected to attend the two-day Shanghai Cooperation Organization summit in China.

Modi is expected to work toward diversifying trade and bolstering ties with Beijing after India was hit by Trump’s 50% tariffs this week (📹 Watch: Here's What to Expect From Xi-Modi talks.)
Monday, Sep. 1
U.S. markets are closed for Labor Day.
Tuesday, Sep. 2
Economic data: ISM and S&P manufacturing purchasing managers indexes for August.
Wednesday, Sep. 3
Earnings: Clothing retailers Macy's (M) and American Eagle (AEO) are reporting, as are tech giants Salesforce (CRM) and Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) after the bell.

Economic data: Job openings and factory orders in July.

Fed speakers: St. Louis Fed President Alberto Musalem; Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari.
Thursday, Sep. 4
Earnings: Broadcom (AVGO) is expected to post after markets close. The chip giant's shares are up more than 25% this year after the company last year exceeded a $1 trillion market cap.

Economic data: Trade deficit for July, second-quarter productivity, weekly jobless claims. Also, the ISM and S&P global services purchasing managers indexes for August.

Fed speakers: New York Fed President John Williams; Chicago Fed President Austan Goolsbee.

Capitol Hill: The Senate Banking Committee will hold a hearing on Stephen Miran's nomination to become a Federal Reserve governor.
Friday, Sep. 5
Economic data: The jobs report for August, including the unemployment rate. This will be the last monthly jobs report before the Federal Reserve is due to make its next decision on interest rates in mid-September.